[SYCL][Docs] Align kernel_args_restrict extension with SYCL 2020 to inherit critical fixes (#5793)
intel/llvm: sycl/doc/extensions/supported/sycl_ext_intel_kernel_args_restrict.asciidoc

    buf1_m[id]=id;
    buf2_m[id]=id*2;
  }
};
----

== Specification

=== Feature test macro

This extension provides a feature-test macro as described in the core SYCL
specification.  An implementation supporting this extension must predefine the
macro `SYCL_EXT_INTEL_KERNEL_ARGS_RESTRICT` to one of the values defined in the table
below.  Applications can test for the existence of this macro to determine if
the implementation supports this feature, or applications can test the macro's
value to determine which of the extension's features the implementation
supports.

[%header,cols="1,5"]
|===
|Value
|Description

|1
|Initial version of this extension.
|===

=== Add new entry to Table 180 in section 5.8.1 (Kernel attributes)

[width="100%",options="header",separator="@",cols="65%,35%"]
|====
@ SYCL attribute @ Description
a@
[source]
----
intel::kernel_args_restrict
----
   a@ Hint to the compiler equivalent to specifying the C99 `restrict`
   attribute on all pointers and accessors (treated as if each accessor was a
   pointer) that are captured as kernel arguments. This effect is equivalent to
   annotating `restrict` on *all* kernel pointer arguments in an OpenCL or

>    SPIR-V kernel.

Reviewer: I still don't like this last sentence:

> This effect is equivalent to annotating `restrict` on *all* kernel pointer arguments in an OpenCL or SPIR-V kernel.

There are two reasons I don't like it:

1. It's very unclear what this really means.  This is a SYCL extension, not an OpenCL or SPIR-V extension.  Users don't write OpenCL or SPIR-V directly.  In fact, some of our targets don't use either of those underlying technologies.  The semantics of the extension should be described purely in SYCL terms, not on some implementation detail that applies to only some targets.

2. If we assume this statement is talking about the SPIR-V code that is generated from SYCL, it's not strictly true.  If we were to implement accessors with two internal pointers (which we have contemplated), then those two internal pointers *would* alias with one another.  The `[[intel::kernel_args_restrict]]` attribute should still apply in this case.  It means that the *accessors* don't alias.  It doesn't provide a guarantee about all the internal pointers used to implement accessors.

The attribute forms an unchecked assertion, in that implementations do not need
to check/confirm the pre-condition in any way.  If a user applies `intel::kernel_args_restrict`

> to a kernel, but there is in fact aliasing between kernel pointer arguments at runtime,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to a kernel, but there is in fact aliasing between accessors at runtime,
```

Likewise, here we should talk about accessors, not internal pointers.

Author: We can't talk about just accessors because pointers can be captured as well.  Are you ok with "between accessors and/or pointers"?

Reviewer: Yes, good point.  I like this new wording.

Copyright (C) 2022 Intel Corporation.  All rights reserved.

Khronos(R) is a registered trademark and SYCL(TM) and SPIR(TM) are trademarks
of The Khronos Group Inc.  OpenCL(TM) is a trademark of Apple Inc. used by
permission by Khronos.

== Contact

To report problems with this extension, please open a new issue at:

https://github.com/intel/llvm/issues

== Dependencies

This extension is written against the SYCL 2020 revision 4 specification.  All
references below to the "core SYCL specification" or to section numbers in the
SYCL specification refer to that revision.

== Status

This extension is implemented and fully supported by {dpcpp}.

== Overview

This extension adds a kernel function attribute that has the same effect as
applying the C99 (or equivalently OpenCL C kernel language) `restrict`
attribute to all pointers and the pointer member of any accessors, that are
function arguments, lambda captures, or function object members, of the
callable to which the attribute was applied.  The attribute can be applied
to kernel lambdas or function call operators, or arbitrary functions (the
effect on arbitrary functions, if any, is implementation defined), to provide

> the compiler with additional information for optimization.

Author: I think your latest suggestion would work.  We could also go with more like:
> This extension adds a kernel function attribute that has similar effect as the C99 restrict type qualifier. When a kernel is decorated with this attribute, all pointers and accessors (treated as if each accessor was a pointer) that are captured as kernel arguments and are used to write memory are assumed to point to disjoint objects in memory.

Preference?

> the compiler with additional information for optimization.

Reviewer: Yes, that seems good.
